README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker "Travis")

![Open Service Broker API](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/logo.png?raw=true)

## Latest Release: v2.13
[Read the specification](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/v2.13/spec.md)

[Read the profile](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/v2.13/profile.md)

[View the workflows](diagram.md)

[Release Notes for past versions](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/v2.13/release-notes.md)

## Working Changes
[Read the working changes to the documentation](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/tree/master)

[Roadmap and release planning](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/projects/1)

These changes have been accepted by the working group for the next version of the specification, however are still subject to change.

## Communications

- [Slack Channel](http://slack.openservicebrokerapi.org)
- [Mailing List/Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/open-service-broker-api)
- [Weekly Call](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/wiki/Weekly-Call)

## Contributing

- See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Getting Started

The [Getting Started](gettingStarted.md) document provides a list of
sample Service Brokers, frameworks and libraries that might be useful to developers
wanting to implement a Platform or Service Broker.

Commit message:

Update readme to contain OpenAPI doc links and tidy up

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker "Travis")

![Open Service Broker API](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/logo.png?raw=true)

## Latest Release: v2.13
[Specification](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/v2.13/spec.md)

[OpenAPI doc](http://petstore.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/v2.13/openapi.yaml)

[Profile](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/v2.13/profile.md)

[Workflows](diagram.md)

[Release notes](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/v2.13/release-notes.md)

## Working Changes (might contain changes that are not yet released)
[Specification](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/spec.md)

[OpenAPI doc](http://petstore.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/master/openapi.yaml)

[Profile](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/profile.md)

[Roadmap and release planning](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/projects/1)

Changes in these documents have been accepted by the working group for the next
version of the specification, however are still subject to change.

## Communications

- [Slack Channel](http://slack.openservicebrokerapi.org)
- [Mailing List/Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/open-service-broker-api)
- [Weekly Call](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/wiki/Weekly-Call)

## Contributing

- See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Getting Started

The [Getting Started](gettingStarted.md) document provides a list of
sample Service Brokers, frameworks and libraries that might be useful to developers
wanting to implement a Platform or Service Broker.
